JMM-JAVA MEMORY MODEL
It defines how threads interact with the memory and when changes made by one thread becomes visible to other threads, it specifies:

1. Memory visibility
2. Altering of Operations.
3. Synchronisation rules 

Volatile
What volatile guarantees?
1. Memory visibility
2. Happens  before relationship.
3. Difference between synchronized and volatile
Volatile-
 Visibiity
faster
no atomicity
best for flags 
No lock is involved

Synchronised- 
visibility plus mutual exclusion
uses lock
slow
atomicity execution inside synchronized block.
best for shared mutable state

Real World usage of volatile
1.Shutdown flag
2.Configuration reload- Multiple threads immediately see the updated configuration
3.Feature toggle- Operation team changes it , every team immediately sees latest values 
4. Cache refresh indicator.

REENTERANT lock
The tread that already owns the lock can acquire it again without getting it block.
REENTERANT lock is a class from java.util.concurrent.locks which is used to provide mutual exclusion(only one thread can execute a critical section at a time)

In REENTERANT LOCK - It will try till the resource is free

Using synchronized we can not perform below actions .
Try acquiring the lock for 2 secs. 
We cannot interrupt waiting thread
We cannot check who or which thread owns the lock.
Fairness.
Checking multiple conditions.

Deadlock
A deadlock occurs when two or more threads waits forever for each oother to release resources. due to which none of the threads can continue.
Four conditions require for a deadlock
1. Mutual exclusion.
2. Hold and wait- Threads which already owns a resource and waiting for another.
3. No preeumption- Resources cannot be forcibly taken away.
4. Circular wait

Q. How to prevent deadlock?
1. Acquire locks in same order.
2. Keep locks for short time.
3. Use reenentrant lock with try lock

Deadlock Detection:
1. Visual VM- shows thread states ,  deadlock threads and CPU usage 
2. Jstack- It shows thread names, locks held and waiting locks.
3. Java Flight Recorder(JFR)- it can detect deadlocks, thread blocking, CPU usage, lock contention


